I created this simple starting application which you of course can find attached to this lecture.
It has two buttons which allow me to increment and decrement a counter here which is then output up here
and actually, I do use two different components for this.
The counter component which holds two buttons and each button basically just triggers a method called
where I emit the updated event and either add 1 or subtract 1 and then I have result where I simply
output the counter,
I do get the counter as a prop here and right now, all the state is stored in app.vue where I do have
counter as a property
and I update the counter here
when I received the updated event from the counter component. There is nothing wrong with that setup
and for such a simple app, you probably want to use that setup and not vuex, but vuex is easier
to understand if we start applying it to a simple app before we then in the last module of this course
will use it on a bigger application.
So now let's work on this app and step by step
introduce the different ideas of vuex, starting with a central state. So
the goal here is to get this counter out of this app.vue file into a new file, let's say into a new module
of our application which holds this central state.
Now typically you store all the vuex related parts or files in a separate folder which you name store,
it's on the same level as components, though I will say right away at the end of this module, you'll find
an article with a further resources and b different setups,
so how else you could structure your files if you wanted to do that
but this is a common set up so let's use that. In this store folder,
I'll create a new file, the store.js
file,
this is simple javascript file which should hold my store. In order to be able to create such a store,
we need some helpers from the vuex package,
so let's install it with npm install --save and then vuex, this will pull down vuex which
is an extra package which gives us some additional tools to use here.
Once it is finished, in the store.js file we want to import vue from vue
and we also want to import vuex from vuex,
so these are the two tools we'll need here.
And then we can simply tell vue to use vuex, to register this plugin basically right,
like with the router where we also did this,
now we enable this vuex functionality in our vue application, vuex basically is a package which
gives us some additional tools to use here for this state management and so on.
So now that we enabled vuex, we can create a new store by typing new vuex store like this,
now store is a method where we pass an object where we configure that store.
Now in that store, what do we need there, what do we want to have in the store?
Well as the main task is to have the state of the application,
we want to have a property named state here and this name is not arbitrary,
it has to be named state for vuex to detect it.
That now is an object where we may store all the properties our application has,
like for example the counter and set it to zero initially, that's the same value I do have here in
the app.vue file.
So with that, the counter is now in our central store,
later on we will add more things to that store, for now
that's all I want, though
I of course want to use that store outside of this file too,
so I need to export it and I will export a constant named store where I save this new store in. Now with the
store exported, I want to go to my main.js file and here register it in my root vue instance, so that
I can really use it in my application because right now having it sitting in that extra file doesn't
do anything,
I won't be able to use it.
Therefore here, I'll first import the store from my just created file in the store folder, so from the
store.js file there, like this
and now with store imported, all I have to do is like with the router, register it here as a property
on my vue instance,
so I could say store store or since it's the same name, just the shortcut again where ES6 will automatically
well set up the right key value pairs here since they have the same name.
So with that, the store is now added to my root vue instance and therefore I have access to the store,
now how do I access it though?
Well it's very simple,
let's first go to the counter app where we have these buttons, instead of emitting our event here,
I can now access the store with $store, dollar sign again signals that this is not a property
we created,
instead it comes from vuejs on its own or in this case, from a third party package, so store gives us
access to the central store.
Well and there, we can access our state and we know what we have a counter there which I basically want
to increment in this case and decrement
in the second case,
so let's quickly do that. With this,
I'm changing the state in my store, in the result.vue file,
I can get rid of my props and settle at a computed property here
which I'll name counter to fit the name I output in my template and this shall then return this store state
counter and whenever the counter there changes, this shall change too
therefore this template is updated.
Now this allows me to now in my app.vue file remove both the part where I pass the props as well
as listening to the event and remove the data down there,
it didn't need that
and in store, I recognize this should have a capital S at the beginning,
so vuex Store, like this.
With that if we save this and go back to the application, you now see it still works as before but it's
improved,
we now store the state in this central store and hence don't need to take the route over our app.vue
file,
instead we can directly communicate with it with this.$store. Already is a lot better
but still has some issues as I will highlight in the next video,
so we can still improve this solution.